>> Kadi Kraman: So, we've used
a ScrollView here and we've mapped
over an array of items to
render things in ScrollView.
And this is actually something that
you shouldn't do in React Native.
The ScrollViews are really handy for
pages that you think might be
longer than a device's screen.
But if you have an array of items
that you map over to render,
then you shouldn't use a ScrollView.
In fact, you should use another
component called FlatList.
So FlatList is a completely new component
if you're coming from the web, so
there is no equivalent in the web at all.
And basically, a FlatList is a more
optimized way of rendering large
sets of items on the Native platform.
The reason it's optimized is that,
it actually tracks how much visible
area you have on your page,
and it doesn't render items that
are way outside of this visible area.
It will also unmount items
that you've scrolled past.
So let's import FlatList
from React Native.
>> Kadi Kraman: So to convert this into
a FlatList, we'll do a FlatList at the top
level, so this will completely
replace our ScrollView.
And we'll pass in our array of items.
So we'll use the data prop.
So data is going to be our ShoppingList.
>> Kadi Kraman: And then the other
property this has is a renderItem
function.
So basically, for
each of these shopping list items,
you are giving the FlatList
instructions on how to render them.
So this will be a function.
And each of this shopping list items will
be passed into the render
item as an object.
So there will be an object and
it's called Item.
So you need to render item,
so this will be props.Item or
if you're destruction compared item.
>> Kadi Kraman: And then we're going
to return our shopping list item,
>> Kadi Kraman: And the name is
going to be Item.name.
We don't need the key because, so
FlatList actually handles the keys for
you as well,
if your data has either an ID or a key.
So if the data that you're
passing in has an ID or a key,
then those will be used automatically.
If the data you're passing in doesn't
have those, you would have to
use this keyExtractor function,
to generate a unique ID for data.
By our case, we don't need to
do that because we have an ID.
So sticky header indices work with
flatness, so we can copy that over.
And we can also copy over the style and
the content container style.
And I think that [COUGH] is so
we can get rid of the ScrollView.
No we can't,
we forgot about the text input.
So the text input, so now we have
a list of items with the shopping list,
but where do we put our text input?
So text input goes to
the header of our list.
And thankfully, with FlatList
we have a component for that.
So there is a ListHeaderComponent, and
I think it's a function,
>> Kadi Kraman: Where
we can pass in our text input.
And now we can get rid of our ScrollView.
>> Kadi Kraman: Lovely, so
functionally, this should look pretty
much the same as did before,
but practically,
it will be a much more optimized version.
Actually, I had a good demo of this, but
we don't have a very long list,
how can I create a very long list?
So this is just an example,
cuz I wanted to show you what it looks
like if you pass in a bunch of things.
So testData, so let me do a new
array
>> Kadi Kraman: Of like a thousand items.
>> Kadi Kraman: Fill, null,
and then let's map over it.
>> Kadi Kraman: And let's just do id,
Item.name.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay,
so I think this should just be
a very long array of numbers.
So if I pass this in, instead,
>> Kadi Kraman: What am I doing wrong?
Id, name,
>> Kadi Kraman: Test data.
>> Kadi Kraman: I'm confused
at why this is null.
>> Kadi Kraman: Item.name.
>> Kadi Kraman: So actually, I want to do,
I don't want this, I want the index.
>> Kadi Kraman: So what happens when you
do things that you weren't planning on
doing, let me just make sure,
what is going on here?
>> Kadi Kraman: Item, index.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay,
this is what I was testing.
Sorry, it was an array of numbers.
It was array of nulls,
of course, they were all null.
[LAUGH] So okay, so this is a massive
list of a bunch of numbers.
So what I wanted to show you is,
if I just console log,
>> Kadi Kraman: This is running on both my
iOS simulator and
Android emulator, [LAUGH] so
that's why there's a lot
of rendering here.
Let me just close the Android one.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, so notice that
there was 1,000 things in my list,
but then, by default,
129 of those get rendered.
If each of these items were longer,
few of these would get rendered.
And then, as I move in the list,
more of these will get funded.
So that's what I mean bout FlatList,
automatically optimizing it.
And the reason it can do that is
because of this renderItem function.
So it's calling a renderItem on this
item when it's ready to be rendered.
So that was the example.
Just changing this back
to our shoppingList.
>> Kadi Kraman: And I'm gonna make
this into an implicit return,
I think that's what I
did in the code example.
Lovely.
So, the FlatList has a bunch
of useful properties, and
one thing it actually
has is a ListEmptyProp.
So you can define something,
so rather than doing,
if shoppingList.length is 0 then render
something, otherwise render the FlatList.
You can have something that's built
into the FlatList that renders
this ListEmptyComponent if
the shoppingList is empty.
So let's do ListEmptyComponent, and
make this into a View with some text.
>> Kadi Kraman: And let's say,
your shopping list is empty.
Import these from React Native.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
let's just give the view a style.
So style,
>> Kadi Kraman: Styles,
ListEmptyContainer, and
in our style sheet we'll create an object.
And let's give it a justifyContent:
center and alignItems: center.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
a bit of a vertical margin, so
marginVertical: let's do 18.
>> Kadi Kraman: Lovely, okay, so
now we can actually get rid
of our initial shopping list.
So let's start with
an empty array instead.
And because my array is empty,
I'm getting your shopping list
is empty list empty placeholder.
I know what I've done wrong.
So, mistakenly in this
ListHeaderComponent,
I've put the text input into a function.
So every time I change it,
it actually re-renders it,
which means that the keyboard disappears.
Pretty sure that is it.
So let me just remove this function.
>> Kadi Kraman: There we go,
that was the problem.
So now if I do my keyboard,
and now yeah, there we go.
>> Kadi Kraman: There we have
our coffee in our shopping list.
>> Kadi Kraman: So yeah,
just to reiterate,
the reason it was re-rendering is because
I put a function here in the list.
List had a component, which means that
this text got remounted every time
the value changed, and
then that would close the keyboard.
So, hope that makes sense.